But I notice now, with a great deal of regret and chagrin, that the Wallace Stevens collection, which is complete as far as my bibliography is concerned anyway, is something that I practically never touch.
And once in a blue moon, if I see something in a catalog that perhaps betters what I have, I may get it.
But I suppose the best thing for me to do would be to find the best way of disposing of that collection, where it would do more good than
just gathering dust on my shells.
I don't know what I really mean by doing more good.
Maybe it would do some good to find a home for it in a college or university library where there is a strong literature department and where there's an interest in Stevens and his work.
Or maybe doing good would mean putting those books up for
uh, auctions, uh, or selling them to a dealer, so somebody else will have, could have the same pleasure of, uh, collecting that I did.
I don't know.
How do you feel about that?
I really don't know how I feel about that.
How do you feel about that, not as far as the Wallace Stevens collection, but in general?
In general.
About giving the next generation of poets to this guy?
No, I'm all for it.
I'm all for it.
And someday here at the Getty, we will have fantastic sales of material, because we have
Because we have great duplicates.
We haven't done anything of that on a grand scale as yet, but we will.
Probably.
We'll do it in two ways.
We will do it through auction, and we will do it by offering our friends in the trade, with whom we've done business over the years, certain materials in trade.
And because we know that these are dealers who will always have,
in time will have material of interest to us.
The problem will be trying to satisfy all of our friends in the trade, because I'm very proud of my personal relationships with the members of the book trade and the institutional ones.
And I don't think it would be fair.
I don't think the trust would let me, for that matter.
But I don't think it would be fair to allow this
kind of lucrative exchange to give this kind of exchange on to only one or two dealers.
We'll have to spread it out.
You wouldn't consider starting a kind of relationship, say, between Harry Ransom and Luke Feldman?
No.
I would definitely not.
I want to talk about it at some point.
Oh, yeah.
I knew Luke Feldman.
Excellence.
Quality.
But it was not quality, it was always Cavallity.
Luke Feldman was somebody you must have heard a lot about from many people.
But he was an extraordinary man.
A lot of people say that he was just a merchant and it wouldn't have made any difference what he would sell.
I disagree.
He had a real feel for books, and he loved, I don't know, maybe loved them is too strong a word, but he enjoyed them.
And he had some, he had more than a small knowledge about, about a lot of the materials that he sold.
And he was very good to young people, and I was young when I knew him, and he was generous with his time and his knowledge.
And I remember going to his apartment in New York across the street from the old Barbizon.
I remember it was across the street from the old Barbizon Hotel for Women.
I think it was 62nd and Lexington Avenue.
He was always very generous, pointing out things.
Very nice.
The House of LDF.
Lou David Feldman.
Yeah.
That's about LDF.
Yes, it was really, yes, as if they were in Arabic.
Yeah, name, yeah.
Yeah, he was a garrulous, talkative, kind of, kind of man, like that, liked a good time.
Yeah, he had a rather extraordinary relationship.
Yes, it caused a problem between us, actually.
Meaning between you, personal?
Yes, yeah, and it's a good book story, so I'll tell it to you if you want to know.
When I was at the Library of Congress, because I was also at the Library of Congress, you know, for a long time, Fred Goff, the Incunabulous, was the head of the Rare Book Division at the Library of Congress.
And I was the second in command there for quite a number of years, all during the 1950s when I left there.
in 1962 to go to the University of California.
And, uh, so, uh, I had made the acquaintance of a woman named Caress Crosby.
How old did he spell that?
He spelled that Caress, as in Caress, C-A-R-E-S-S-E, Crosby.
Caress Crosby and her husband, Harry Crosby,
were a very famous expatriate couple, Black Sun Press.
And I had been very interested in the Black Sun Press, and I was thrilled when I realized that Karras Crosby lived in Washington.
And I got to meet her through a number of interesting events.
My wife went to college with a young,
with another woman who was a friend of Caress Crosby's and came to Washington to live in her house.
And so we got together, and we saw a lot of each other.
And Caress asked me at one point, would I like the job of cataloging her collection of the Black Sun Press material?
And I said, yeah, I'd love it, but, you know, I've got a full-time job.
It takes a lot of time, and so on.
And it isn't as if you had a connection with the Library of Congress, or your books were going to come there, or anything of that kind.
And if that were the case, things might be different.
Well, this was wonderful.
She took that hint.
She really did on that one.
And I'm making, I'm compressing the story, making a long story short.
We made a deal, which was legalized and contract and all of that through the Library of Congress legal counsel and whatnot, that I would spend, I've forgotten what it was now, a couple of afternoons a week or something like that,
And her house, she had a very pretty little house just above DuPont Circle in Washington, and I would go there about, say, twice a week or so, and I would make a checklist catalog of sorts of her collection, and that in time, whatever the given time was,
this collection would come to the Rare Book Division of the Library of Congress as a gift.
So everybody was very happy.
And I did this for a period of time.
It's been a long, many, many months, I think a year, I can't remember now, doing this.
And, of course, we got to know each other very well.
She got, at just about the end of the year at work, a request.
from the American Embassy to Rome.
She got a request to show, to make an exhibit of the Black Sun Press in Rome, which was going to be sponsored either by the American Embassy or the USIA, something like that.
And she was very thrilled and happy about this.
And we helped her.
select the stuff for the exhibit, I did, and the Library of Congress, the facilities of the Library of Congress were used to wrap the stuff up and send it to Rome.
While it was in Rome, Lou Feldman, somehow or another,
learned about the collection, or met Cress Crosby, and told her that, and I'm putting words in the man's mouth, and he's no longer around to correct them, but essentially what happened was this.
He told her that it's a very nice thing to give all this stuff away to the nation, but did she realize how much
His friend, Harry Ransom, and the University of Texas were prepared to pay her for this.
Well, the timing for him was very good, because just at that moment, just at that time, Carest Crosby had bought a huge castle outside of Rome.
I don't know, something like 400 rooms.
No roof and no water and this and the other, and she was going to set up a sort of writer's colony and a place that was going to work for peace and all sorts of good things.
And although she was a very wealthy woman, this was an extremely expensive project, and she liked the idea of getting this large sum of money, which he said the Black Sun Press collection was worth, and indeed it was.
Oh, no.
I mean, I'm sure he quoted a figure to her, but if I did know, I don't remember.
I didn't realize it was more than the Library of Congress.
We were not going to pay anything.
She was going to give it in return for our cataloging.
She was going to give it, in a sense, in return for my cataloging, but just as a generous gift to the nation.
And this was a spectacular collection, mind you.
These were not just a collection of the Black Sun Press book, but enormous amounts of correspondence, and manuscripts, and ephemera, and photographs, and really lovely.
So, uh, this was, uh, yeah, yeah, late 50s.
Yeah, something like that.
I don't remember the years.
So, I got wind of this, and I said, and I wrote to her intuitively, I said, what's the story?
And this was the story.
And then she realized the monetary value, and she needed so much,
money for Ropa Sinibalda, the name of the castle.
And she felt very guilty about putting in a swimming pool up there at the castle at the top of the hill when the people in the little village at the bottom of the hill didn't have water.
They had to go pump it from somewhere else.
So to assuage her guilt, she brought water to the town.
So, you know, all this money seemed very attractive.
Well, to cut this short again, I went, naturally, to Fred Goff, and then I went to the Librarian of Congress, and the Librarian of Congress spoke to the lawyer, and the lawyers spoke to the lawyers from the University of Texas.
and papers were exchanged, and her agreement with us was placed in evidence, and it was a very, very trying, very unpleasant.
Where was this court?
I could probably look up some papers if it was in the court.
Oh, no, I don't—it never went to court.
It just was— There were no papers you ever filed to the court.
No, I don't think it—no, as I recall, it never went to court.
No, I'm just saying one set of lawyers showing the other, you see.
And Harry Ransom was told by the Librarian of Congress, look, you don't do things like this.
The upshot.
Who was the Librarian of Congress?
Werner Clapp.
You just don't do things like this.
And the upshot of it was a very sad one, that she said,
Neither Texas nor California got it.
Nor Library of Congress, excuse me, not California.
Got it.
She was so upset.
She abrogated the agreement.
She abrogated the agreement entirely.
I mean, she did not sell it to Texas, you see, so she could not be taken to court for breaking her word to the Library of Congress.
But she just didn't sell it or give it at all in her lifetime.
And she left it to, I can't think of his name now, a nice man, the executive of her estate, who took it to his university in Carbondale, Southern Illinois.
And that's where it is.
Oh, yeah.
And this, of course, is one of the great jewels in their crown.
But for a long time, Lou Feldman and I sort of didn't speak with one another.
And for a very long time, Chris Crosby didn't speak to me because she felt that I had ruined her chances to make a lot of money.
But she didn't need the money, right?
Well, I mean, it's hard to say who needs it and who doesn't need it.
No, as I said, she was a wealthy woman.
But she also did many, you know, she had very many expenses.
Not a word.
He wrote a biography of Harry Crosby, which was stupid.
But I reviewed that book for the New Republic magazine.
And it's a horrible book.
And he chose the less interesting of the pair.
You see, Harry Crosby was not a terribly interesting man.
It was not.
I mean, it was Keres Crosby who was the interesting one.
She had the taste.
The press was her idea.
And you'll notice that it wasn't until after Harry Crosby's death in 1929 that the press really became into its own.
Before that, they printed silly stuff and a lot of it his own ranting and ravings.
He wasn't a fool.
He was a rich man who never really worked, who had very strange ideas.
He was very narcissistic.
Didn't he steal some of her rare books once and sell them to his parents?
He may have.
I don't know.
Anyway, I didn't, she and I didn't speak for Verlaine, and I was, this disturbed me greatly because I was very fond of her, and, uh, and not only had I, was I in her house twice a week, uh, two afternoons a week cataloging this stuff, but we saw, my wife and I saw her socially very often, um, and even evenings in her house, or she and I, she was very fond of our, uh,
uh, first child, uh, was born while we were just living in Washington.
And, uh, uh, and we had very good times together, and she was very generous to us.
Uh, so, uh, I felt very, very badly about this.
And, uh, I was very happy that just before she died, uh, there was a meeting of the James Joyce Society at the Gotham Book Mart in New York.
And, uh,
She was a member, and I was, and I still am a member.
And I had come, I was in New York, and so I decided to go to a meeting of the Society at the Gotham Book Mart.
Francis Stelloff, of course, was still living then.
And I was standing in the front of the, the meetings were always held in the back room of the bookshop.
I was standing in the front.
waiting for the meeting to start.
And in walked Caress Crosby, and I'll never forget, she was a very beautiful woman, even in her old age.
She died in the 70s, in her 70s, late 70s, in, I forgot my year, in her 72, 74, something like that.
And she herself was in her 70s and still very beautiful.
a really, really, really very handsome woman.
I saw her walk in.
She was wearing this huge fur coat.
And she came in the front door of the Dr. Wilkmar.
And I was standing about the middle of the front room of the store.
And she looked at me, and I looked at her.
And she put her arms out, like that.
And we embraced, and we both cried.
Yeah, and we had a big, you know, we had a big cry, and kissed, and all that sort of thing.
And then that's the last I ever saw it.
Yeah, and I was very, very happy about that, because we had been good friends.
And I was very sad that this had broken up over,
He was outside of your control.
He was outside of control?
Yeah, and you know, she fell for this story, which no doubt would have been true, about all this money that she would have made from the University of Texas if she didn't give this stuff away but sold it to them.
Anyway, that's how that ended.
That does give you a little bit of insight on Lee David Silva's book, doesn't it?
Well, Lou Feldman said to me at a later point, he said, I didn't know, and she didn't tell me.
Now, I don't know whether this is true or not.
I had thought that we at the Library of Congress in those days had made it as public fact as possible, but maybe it was something he missed.
and everyone should have let the stuff go to Rome.
Yeah, anyway.
How about Harry Larson?
Did you know Harry?
No, I never met him, no.
What do you, do you have any wisdom to share on these?
I mean, a usual kind of relationship, say, that exists at least when Harry and you and Selvin were?
No.
Selvin was essentially the exclusive agent.
No, I don't, I don't.
I know that this kind of thing happens with collectors.
and dealers, and I suppose it happens to institutions and dealers, who sort of say, you know, that everything always seems to have to pass through one mind or one set of hands.
I mean, it's always been a puzzle to me, as well as to many other people, the reliance that Bradley Martin had on
I'll do with Dave Kirstenbaum of Carnegie Books, for example.
Dave is still living, isn't he?
He must be an old man.
He's still working, isn't he?
He's 96 years old on January 10th, and I called him at his shop to wish him a happy birthday.
No kidding.
I really ought to write that down.
I ought to count it.
He's there from 9 to 12, Monday to Friday.
I should really see him.
I wish he would.
He goes to all the sales.
January 10th, Dave.
January 10th is the birthday.
I... Yeah.
He's there from 9 to 12, Monday to Friday.
Fascinating.
Fascinating because he will be 96 or he isn't?
He was 96.
He'll be 97 this night.
I saw him at the last Bradley Martin sale.
Because when I was at New York University, I used to see him about once a week because he had the same kind of relationship with Commodore Fails.
He mentioned it.
His first name I can't remember.
DeCourcy.
That was it.
DeCourcy Fails.
He was always called Commodore because at one point in his life he was the Commodore of the New York Yacht Club.
And Fails, when I came to New York for that very brief episode in my career, had just given
the Thales collection of literature to NYU, and a lot of it either acquired through Dave Kirshenbaum or with Dave's help.
And these guys in those days, like most of us in former times, really loved to eat and drink, too, occasionally.
And one of the duties of my job was to go have lunch with Fales and Dave Kirchenbaum twice a week.
It had to be twice a week because when Dave was the host for lunch,
We would eat at Joe's.
Is it Joe's?
I think, I can't remember.
I think it's, well, I can't remember the name.
No, Joe's is another place.
But there was, and there still is, I know it's still there, an Italian restaurant on the west side of Lexington Avenue between 61st and, no, between 60th and 61st.
an Italian restaurant yeah now now the Carnegie's on the corner what 59th it's right it's right across the street from Bloomingdale's right on the corner well so if the Carnegie's on the corner of 59th and Lexington stairs right right then uh
Then, I think this restaurant is between 60th and 61st on the west side of the street.
I know it's still there.
So, once a week, and actually fails.
He's an old man by this time.
He didn't have anything else to do.
And so it was my duty to keep him happy, because here he was, a big donor to NYU.
And, uh, we were always hoping there would be more, uh, to come.
Uh, and, uh, and Dave, uh, well, Dave had, what, his interest, uh, in, in this, uh, till, and he, and, uh, and, of course, he feels always deferred to Dave Kirshenov.
So, so, uh, when Dave was the host, we'd have to meet, uh, we'd meet at this restaurant.
And when, uh,
Of course, if Fales was the host, we'd meet at the Players Club in Gramercy Park, because he was a member.
He was very proud of that membership.
Yeah, and we'd meet there.
And, you know, this really would kill my ass, you know.
How did you figure getting to invite him?
Why did you have to be there?
Because I was the curator of the Fales Collection.
I mean, why did you have to be at the lunch for two days a week?
Well, because they wanted to talk about what was happening with the Fales Collection.
What I was doing, what we had cataloged, was there anything I wanted to buy, and so on and so on.
Just talk.
How did you judge David?
I have really no way of judging him at all.
I never really knew him as a bookman, as a dealer.
no he doesn't he doesn't there were all sorts of rumors about it but i'm i i never i don't know i don't know i don't know we that's all i know yeah that he was not a member of the association but and that he wasn't because there something had transpired at some point or another
But I never had any business dealings with him whatsoever.
But his, and there have been a number of instances of dealers who had this special relationship with, I mean, who is the,
The great collection of literature that's down at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville.
Oh, I can't think of that wonderful man, who never did anything without consulting John Cone or Mike Papantonio at Seven Gables.
Papantonio's miniature books there and Worcester, yeah.
That kind of thing.
I've always found that very interesting.
Well, that's the great satisfaction that .
And it sounded, in its own way, to jump back, maybe one reason that you become disinterested in your own collection is that you get a real kick out of getting these extraordinary things from the getting.
I still buy, I still buy, uh, something occasionally, I mean, a beautiful, something that, that, but, but I don't, you know, I'm not collecting in, uh, classical, uh, traditional sense anymore.
I'll buy something that, uh, that interests me.
Uh, I, uh, I saw a beautiful book, uh,
a year or so ago of Gunnar Kaldavar.
He's an artist and a printer and publisher, and I had an opportunity to see a spectacular copy of one of his books.
I paid a hell of a lot more money than I really should pay for such a thing, but it was just so bright, and I just knew this was for me, so I bought it.
Then I still have one of the great collections of the Cummington Press.
I have a lot of press books.
I have a lot of, and I know Harry Duncan quite well, and I have a really remarkable collection of the coming-to-the-press material, and all the offshoots of the coming-to-the-press.
And then years and years ago, I, during particularly, during the 50s and the 60s, I decided that I was going to collect
the poetry of my time.
So my collection of a lot of interesting people, I mean, my collection of the Jargon Society is excellent, for example.
My collection of things having to do with the Black Mountain College is very strong.
Why the Black Mountain College?
Well, it was where the jargon
society was born, for that matter.
But I think it represented one of the brief, and unfortunately too brief, high points in American education.
Very European in flavor, very interdisciplinary, multicultural kinds of things.
So I've collected a lot of
The poetry and the art, it has come out of that, and so that my collections of the work of people like Robert Duncan, Robert Creeley, Zukovsky, people of that made are very good.
All the, all, I have, excuse me, these are all books now, these aren't manuscripts now.
Oh, I have a few manuscripts and pieces too, books and journals, books and magazines.
I love little magazines.
And I used to have a great deal more than I have now, because I've sold off bits and pieces.
But I still have quite a nice collection of little magazines.
But just, and I'll end with that, but do you get the satisfaction of buying for the games?
Yes.
As I say, I buy only occasionally for myself.
And you do get personal satisfaction for buying things?
Oh, absolutely.
Every day.
In my personal life, you know, I've reached a point where the fewer possessions that I have, the happier I am.
I think everybody comes to this at some point.
I just don't want the responsibility anymore.
I don't want to take care of all of this stuff.
One of the films I interviewed, apparently, in a big man.
Have you ever heard of it?
No.
that he still never leaves the house without somebody where he's a bit of a collection going to leave.
Yeah.
But you get two rooms at the Metropolitan Museum of Life.
Yeah, no, that's wonderful.
But I'm not in that class.
But I just don't, you know, after all, I'm not a kid anymore.
And my wife and I like the freedom of our children growing up in a way.
We like the freedom of doing what we want to do now with them.
Do any of the children share the same passion?
Well, I wouldn't say passion, but I'm happy to say that both of them are readers.
Not one of them in particular, but one in particular is a great reader and interested in ideas, interested in, you know, loves music.
I guess I can ask you one more question.
I want to ask you, first of all, very briefly, I'm sure you have a major conservation program.
Yes and no.
Because we are in this building,
only for a few years.
When we move up there on the hill in Brentwood, we will have our own very nice.
At the moment, because of space, we do one of three things.
We use the museum's facility.
We use the Getty Conservation Institute's facility, or we go out privately.
And then just the size of your staff.
For me personally, in collection development.
Well, that's a very interesting question, because I can't answer it simply for this reason.
And I don't want to answer simply for this reason, because it concerns the philosophy of this place.
It's something which makes it unusual.
It's my belief, and one that I'm happy to share it by my colleagues and the director, that
The kind of institution that is strictly compartmentalized, where everybody does just this and nothing else, is not the kind of place we want to be.
We want to be the kind of place where everybody who has the ability to make an impact, to share an idea,
and share information has the opportunity to do that.
So that it's a very collegial kind of atmosphere that we try to encourage here.
So that if we have people who have a significant subject expertise who but are not themselves
in the collection development division.
We don't want that talent, that ability, wasted.
Those people, a formal arrangement is instituted so that those people are brought in to the discussions and the decision-making processes
and have something to say about those areas in which they are expert.
For example, we have a cataloger in the library who is a Russian expert.
Not only is he a Russian expert, but he's an expert on the very aspects of Russian art, philosophy, literature,
that we are particularly interested in, namely the early 20th century.
He's a bona fide scholar in these areas.
But his job when he came here was as a run-of-the-mill routine cataloger, not even a rare book cataloger.
Well, he discovered this
this talent and interest in this part.
And we see to it.
I mean, one twentieth, one fifth.
One day out of every five is spent, although he reports primarily to somebody else, in cataloging whatever is put in front of him, like cataloging is his primary responsibility.
I, as
the person in charge of collection development, and knowing that these are areas of particular significance for us, have one-fifth of his time for collection development purposes.
And this is true throughout the institution.
So I have a body of people.
Yeah, I'm going to tell you.
I've got to count them up.
I have a body of people.
I have one, two, three, four, five, six, seven.
I have about ten.
I was going to say ten.
Yeah, I have about ten who work full-time for me.
But in addition, I have a large number of other people to draw from.
And I do.
So that my ten, you know, I have to be very close supervision of them.
They are responsible to me, you know.
I'm their supervisor.
However, as far as collection development work is concerned, all of these others are also responsible to me.
And when their supervisor, their principal supervisor, comes at the end of the year to write their performance evaluations and that kind of thing, I write a little addendum, a little codicil, you see, concerning their work for me.
And one other question.
When we were talking about
I hesitate to use the word aggressive, but doing more in collection development than any other institution.
I wonder if you see any kind of parallel between what you're doing now and say with Texas State for 20 to 30 years.
You're not taking into account the means of acquisition.
I really don't know how to answer that question.
One, because, I mean, we all heard of Texas and the great collections and how they were added, but I'm not
I'm really, I don't know myself, I don't know, you know, or read about it, the reasons for this, I mean, what they wanted to do with this kind of stuff.
I wanted to build a digital tech national in about 15 years.
Ah, but you see, then that's not what we want.
That's not what we want.
He actually said that, he wanted to build a digital tech national in Austin, Texas.
Ah, no, well then that is not what we want at all.
We are not interested in everything.
We are not interested in quantity, and we are not interested in a letter, for example, a manuscript, which is already published, you see.
Which has been published.
We are not.
Neither are they.
They have a rule, in fact, that they won't buy it.
Yeah, but they bought all of those.
Writers, archives, manuscripts and stuff.
We would not do that.
We are interested in scholarship and research here.
If a letter has been published, then fine.
What if I'm a scholar?
Can I copy a letter that you own?
Of course you can.
They will not allow you to do that.
Did you know that?
No, I didn't.
But of course you can.
No, our stuff is here to be used.
I mean, naturally, if we don't have the copyright, you've got to check through.
That kind of thing.
That's right.
Everything else is fine.
Yeah.
But, no, our stuff is here to be used.
In fact, there's a story.
Robert Graves' son was offered at the University of Texas.
He had some of his father's letters, and they have a great... Yeah.
And he would give them copies of what he had, and they wouldn't do it.
really but so you see so our our uh our purpose is uh uh uh i mean we're not here to accumulate everything we're here to work very closely as i said before with other institutions particularly those in the same geographical area that we do but uh um
I hesitate to say we're highly selective when it's true that we buy so much in so many areas, but in a sense we are highly selective because we're only interested in material that we think is worthwhile, will further scholarship and research in the history of art and artifacts and the ways that we want that kind of research to be done.
One final question.
Can you think of any one acquisition or two as well?
Well, that's a tough one.
Me too.
Oh, we've had so many fantastic collections.
Something that you've identified as a real thing was there, and everything that worked in what you've got is the crown, the jewel and the crown of the Getty.
The jewel and the crown.
Yeah, that's a tough one.
It's like saying, you know, what's the most interesting book you've read recently, and your mind goes blank.
There have been so many.
And why only the Getty?
I mean, I've acquired things.
I've acquired things for every institution that at work.
That's been the joy of it.
If you think about it, I'll quiet it back.
Yeah, right, yeah.
I really don't know what I'm saying.
There have been so many.
And you know, it's also...
I mean, the things that interest me now, the things that my mind is on are the ones that are working, that are in the stove.
I think it's great, man.
Yes, it is.
Because that's what's fun.
No, I'm proud of the ones that are here and elsewhere.
There have been a few that haven't gotten away, too, of course, you know.
Well, what's gotten away?
Any big frustrations?
Of course, I think the best story of frustration is the one you told me about it.
Yeah, yeah.
Not too bad we didn't get away.
Not very kind of it.
But, yeah, no, there have been a few frustrations that I haven't gotten, but all in all, it's
It's been good.
No, I'm very proud of the fact that I can look around, everywhere around the country, in L.C., New York, California, Washington, and I can see, in some cases, beautiful, in other cases, useful collections that have and can move.
make a difference to people, make a difference to scholarship, to research.
And I hope, especially to the young people who come around and look at something and think, gosh, I never thought of it that way before.
Something like that.
You were going to get me some things, some papers.